.TH PROJECT-V10 5 "November 20, 2010" "RunDeck User Manuals" "Version 1.0"
.SH NAME
.PP
project-v10 - describes the RunDeck resource model document
.PP
The \f[B]project\f[] XML document declares a resource model that
can also be uploaded to a project hosted on the RunDeck server.
This is a demonstration document using all possible elements.
.SH Elements
.SS project
.PP
The root (aka \[lq]top-level\[rq]) element of the project.xml file.
Can contain the following elements:
.TP
.B node (#node)
A node resource element.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B setting (#setting)
A setting resource element.
.RS
.RE
.PP
\f[I]Example\f[]
.PP
\f[CR]
      <project>
      \ \ <node\ .../>
      \ \ <setting\ ...\ \ />
      </project>
\f[]
.SS node
.PP
The node element defines a Node resource.
.PP
\f[I]Attributes\f[]
.TP
.B name
The node name.
This is a logical identifier from the node.
(required)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B type
The node type, such as \[lq]Node\[rq].
(required)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B description
A brief description about the node.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B hostname
The hostname or IP address of the remote host.
(required)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B osArch
The operating system architecture.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B osFamily
The operating system family, such as unix or windows.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B osName
The operating system name such as Linux or Mac OS X.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B tags
Comma separated list of filtering tags.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B username
The username used for the remote connection.
(required)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B editUrl
URL to an external resource model editor service (optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B remoteUrl
URL to an external resource model service.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.PP
\f[I]Nested Elements\f[]
.TP
.B resources (#resources)
Associated resources.
.RS
.RE
.PP
\f[I]Examples\f[]
.PP
Define a node named \[lq]strongbad\[rq]:
.PP
\f[CR]
      <node\ name="strongbad"\ type="Node"
      \ \ \ \ description="a\ development\ host"
      \ \ \ \ hostname="strongbad.local"
      \ \ \ \ osArch="i386"\ osFamily="unix"\ osName="Darwin"\ osVersion="9.2.2"
      \ \ \ \ username="alexh"/>
\f[]
.PP
Define a node of the type LinuxNode that has a Port as a resource:
.PP
\f[CR]
      <node\ type="LinuxNode"\ name="centos54"\ hostname="centos54.local"
      \ \ \ \ \ \ description="Sample\ Linux\ node"\ tags="sample,linux"\ \ \ \ \ 
      \ \ \ \ \ \ >
      \ \ \ \ <resources>
      \ \ \ \ \ \ <resource\ type="Port"\ name="httpd"/>
      \ \ \ \ </resources>
      </node>
\f[]
.PP
Define a node named that uses a non standard SSH port.
The \[lq]hostname\[rq] value is overloaded to include the port
(192.168.1.106:4022):
.PP
\f[CR]
      <node\ name="centos54"\ type="Node"
      \ \ \ \ description="a\ centos\ host"
      \ \ \ \ hostname="192.168.1.106:4022"
      \ \ \ \ username="deploy"/>
\f[]
.PP
An example using just the required attributes:
.PP
\f[CR]
      <node\ name="centos54"\ type="Node"
      \ \ \ \ hostname="192.168.1.106:4022"
      \ \ \ \ username="deploy"/>
\f[]
.SS setting
.PP
The setting element defines a Setting resource.
.PP
\f[I]Attributes\f[]
.TP
.B type
the resource type.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B name
the setting name (required).
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B description
brief description.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B settingType
the value type.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B settingValue
the setting value (required).
.RS
.RE
.PP
\f[I]Example\f[]
.PP
\f[CR]
      <setting\ type="Port"\ name=""tomcatListenPort""\ 
      \ \ \ \ \ \ \ description="The\ port\ tomcat\ listens"\ 
      \ \ \ \ \ \ \ settingValue="8080"\ />
\f[]
.SS resources
.PP
The resources tag defines a set of resource relationships.
Each related resource is referenced via a resource (#resource)
element.
.PP
\f[I]Nested elements\f[]
.TP
.B resource (#resource)
An associated resource.
.RS
.RE
.PP
\f[I]Example\f[]
.PP
\f[CR]
      <resources>
      \ \ \ <resource\ type="Port"\ name="tomcatListenPort"\ />
      </resources>
\f[]
.SS resource
.PP
A resource element is used to reference another resource in the
project model by type and name.
.PP
\f[I]Attributes\f[]
.TP
.B type
the resource type.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B name
the resource name.
.RS
.RE
.PP
\f[I]Example\f[]
.PP
Reference a Port setting named \[lq]tomcatListenPort\[rq].
.PP
\f[CR]
      <resource\ type="Port"\ name="tomcatListenPort"\ />
\f[]
.PP
The RunDeck source code and all documentation may be downloaded
from <https://github.com/dtolabs/rundeck/>.
.SH AUTHORS
Alex Honor.

