.TH RESOURCE-YAML-V12 5 "February 25, 2011" "RunDeck User Manuals" "Version 1.2"
.SH NAME
.PP
resource-yaml-v12 - describes the RunDeck resource model document
Yaml format
.PP
The \f[B]resource\f[] YAML document declares a resource model used
by a RunDeck Project to define the set of Nodes that are available.
.PP
See <http://yaml.org> for more information about YAML.
.SS Structure
.PP
The resource format supports two structures: either a Yaml Sequence
of Node definitions (#node-definition), or a Yaml Map of node names
with Node definitions (#node-definition) as values.
.PP
Example:
.PP
\f[CR]
      -\ somenode:\ ...
      \ \ ...
      -\ somenode2:\ ...
\f[]
.PP
OR
.PP
\f[CR]
      somenode:
      \ \ \ hostname:\ ...
      \ \ \ ...
      somenode2:
      \ \ \ hostname:\ ...
\f[]
.PP
In the second case, the \f[B]nodename\f[] entry is not required.
.SS Node Definition
.PP
A Node definition consists of a Map with some required and some
optional entries.
.PP
Required Entries:
.TP
.B \f[B]nodename\f[]
Name of the node, this must be a unique Identifier across nodes
within a project
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]hostname\f[]
Hostname of the node.
This can be any IP Address or hostname to address the node.
Since hostname is used to make SSH connections, it is possible to
overload the value to include port number.
(eg, hostname:port).
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]username\f[]
User name to connect to the node via SSH.
.RS
.RE
.PP
Optional Entries:
.TP
.B \f[B]description\f[]
A description of the Node
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]tags\f[]
A literal with comma-separated tag strings, or a Sequence of
literals
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]osFamily\f[]
OS Family
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]osArch\f[]
OS Architecture
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]osName\f[]
OS Name
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]osVersion\f[]
OS Version
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]editUrl\f[]
URL to an external resource model service.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]remoteUrl\f[]
URL to an external resource model editor service.
.RS
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
For more information about using the
\f[B]editUrl\f[]/\f[B]remoteUrl\f[] see the
RunDeck Guide (RunDeck-Guide.html#resource-editor).
.SS Examples
.PP
\f[CR]
      Venkman.local:
      \ \ description:\ Rundeck\ server\ node
      \ \ hostname:\ Venkman.local
      \ \ nodename:\ Venkman.local
      \ \ osArch:\ x86_64
      \ \ osFamily:\ unix
      \ \ osName:\ Mac\ OS\ X
      \ \ osVersion:\ 10.6.6
      \ \ tags:\ \[aq]\[aq]
      \ \ username:\ greg
\f[]
.PP
The RunDeck source code and all documentation may be downloaded
from <https://github.com/dtolabs/rundeck/>.
.SH AUTHORS
Greg Schueler.

