.TH RUN 1 "November 20, 2010" "RunDeck User Manuals" "Version 1.2.1"
.SH NAME
.PP
run - execute a stored Job on the RunDeck server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
run [-h] [-v] [-l level] [nodefilters] [-i id] [-j group/name][--
arguments]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The run command is used to start the execution of a Job defined in
RunDeck.
The Job is executed on the server, and the ID for the execution is
displayed.
This is equivalent to logging in to RunDeck and starting a Job
within the web application GUI.
.PP
The Job can either be specified by ID (-i), or by name and optional
group (-j).
The Node filters used for the execution of the job can also be
specified on the commandline, and will be used instead of any
already defined for the Job.
Arguments to the Execution can be specfied after (--).
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
-h, --help : Print usage message.
.PP
-v : Run verbosely.
.PP
-l, --loglevel \f[I]LEVEL\f[] : Run the command using the specified
LEVEL.
*LEVEL can be \f[B]verbose\f[], \f[B]info\f[], \f[B]warning\f[],
\f[B]error\f[].
.PP
-I \f[I]FILTER\f[] : Include node filter.
.PP
-X \f[I]FILTER\f[] : Exclude node filter.
.PP
-C \f[I]COUNT\f[] : Threadcount, defaults to 1.
.PP
-K : Keep going on node failure.
.PP
-N : Do not keep going on node failures.
.PP
-j, --job \f[I]NAME\f[] : Job job (group and name).
Run a Job specified by Job name and group.
eg: `Group/Job'.
.PP
-i, --id \f[I]IDENTIFIER\f[] : Run the Job with this IDENTIFIER
.PP
-- \f[I]ARGUMENTS\f[] : Pass the specified ARGUMENTS as options to
the job
.SH EXECUTION
.PP
This tool requires a unique Job to be identified for execution.
This is done either by using \f[B]-i\ id\f[], or
\f[B]-j\ group/name\f[].
The group is optional if only one Job with the name exists.
.SS EXAMPLES
.PP
Run the Job that has ID \f[B]12\f[]:
.PP
\f[CR]
      run\ -i\ 12
\f[]
.PP
Run the job named \[lq]Full\[rq] in the group \[lq]QA/Test\[rq]
.PP
\f[CR]
      run\ -g\ QA/Test\ -n\ Full
\f[]
.PP
Also runs the job \[lq]Full\[rq] in QA/Test group:
.PP
\f[CR]
      run\ -j\ QA/Test/Full
\f[]
.PP
If you try to run a job by name only, but it is not unique, you
will get an error message like this:
.PP
\f[CR]
      run\ -j\ testJob
      Error:\ Failed\ request\ to\ run\ a\ job:\ Server\ reported\ an\ error:\ No\ unique\ job\ matched\ the\ input:\ testJob,\ null.\ found\ (2)
\f[]
.PP
Running a Job and specifying Node filters:
.PP
\f[CR]
      run\ -I\ tags=dev\ -X\ os-family=windows\ -C\ 2\ -K\ -j\ \[aq]test/Job\ 1\[aq]
\f[]
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]rd-queue\f[] (1), \f[B]rd-jobs\f[] (1).
.PP
The RunDeck source code and all documentation may be downloaded
from <https://github.com/dtolabs/rundeck/>.
.SH AUTHORS
Alex Honor.

